You may or may not have heard the term ES6, or ECMAScript, or ES2015.
The problem is, it can get quite confusing if you don't understand what these terms mean.
It all started with Netscape.
And for those of you who don't know what Netscape was, it just used to be a browser.
In fact, it used to be the most popular browser, and a company called AOL acquired Netscape in 1999.
Netscape asked a gentleman called Brendan Eich to develop a language that resembled Java. Right, and
they wanted this language for the web of Netscape.
Eich, however, decided that Java was too complicated with all its rules.
And so he set out to create a simpler language that even a beginner could code in.
This is evident in things such like relaxing the need to have a semicolon everywhere. After the language
was completed by Eich, the marketing team of Netscape
got permission to name it, JavaScript.
So in December 1995, Netscape announced JavaScript in a press release.
(swoosh)
About a year or two after JavaScript release in the browser, Microsoft's Internet Explorer took the language
and they also started making their own implementation, and they actually called it "JScript".
At the same time, Internet Explorer was dominating the market and not long after Netscape had to shut
its project down.
But before they shut down, Netscape decided to start a standard that would guide the path of JavaScript.
They submitted the language to the European Computer Manufacturers Association.
That's a bit of a mouthful, but there were trademark issues associated with the name JavaScript, and
the standard became known as ECMAScript, which is a name that it holds today.
ECMAScript has had a few releases, and in 1999 they released ECMAScript3 before they went
into hibernation for the next 10 years.
And during this 10 years, Microsoft dominated the scenes, but at the same time, they weren't improving
their product. And hence Firefox was born.
Firefox, by the way, was also led by Eich. And a whole heap of other browsers such as Chrome, Oprah,
etc., etc. started making the scenes.
You know, a lot of people get confused between ECMAScript and JavaScript, and whether ECMAScript
is the language and JavaScript is a dialect is arguable in my mind and
who cares?
Like, it's not important.
There is no compiler out there that runs ECMAScript.
So I believe JavaScript is considered a language which implements a standard called ECMAScript.